links/index.md, before:

---
layout : default
title : Links
---

## Other FVWM-related sites

Here are some other sites (besides the
[offical]({{ "/" | prepend: site.baseurl }})
one) that have FVWM info:

  + [The FVWM Wiki Pages](http://fvwmforums.org/wiki/):
    A shared collection of FVWM releated stuff.
  + [The FVWM Forums](http://fvwmforums.org/phpBB3/):
    Acollection of user questions and answers.
  + [Suzanne Skinner's FVWM site](http://ironphoenix.org/tril/fvwm/configs/):
    Stylish screenshots (and config files) from the author of the
    MultiPixmap titlebar feature. Don't miss her thoughtful and
    entertaining essay
    "[My Quest for the Perfect Window Manager](http://ironphoenix.org/tril/fvwm/)."
    (*The hobbit in us would like to subtitle it "There and Back Again".*)
  + [Dorothy Robinson's FVWM 2.6 Decors](http://www.twobarleycorns.net/fvwm-decors.html):
    An impressive collection of window decors showing off FVWM 2.6's
    visual versatility. All the config files are downloadable.
  + [FVWM Beginners Gude](http://zensites.net/fvwm/guide/):
    A good read when you start with FVWM.

## Themes

  + [The Offical FVWM Themes Home Page](http://fvwm-themes.sourceforge.net/):
    Highly recommended for novice user. FVWM Themes provides a powerful
    gui-driven theme engine and a wide variety of preconfigured themes so you
    can get started without having to learn anything about FVWM configuration
    commands. If the supplied themes don't suit you, you can create your own,
    or mix and match components from the existing ones.
    The site also has links to other theme related sites.
  + [The Window Manger Icons Project](http://wm-icons.sourceforge.net/):
    An efficent icon distribution to use with fvwm and fvwm-themes.
  + [FVWM Decorations](http://www.xwinman.org/fvwm.php):
    Some screenshots and config files.

## ICCCM

If you want to know why FVWM does some of the things it does (or if you just want
to see if we're really behaving properly!), you can peruse the online version of
the ICCCM:

  + [Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual](http://tronche.com/gui/x/icccm/)

Commit message:

Updated links/index.md. 	Removed some old links. 	Added links to Fvwm-Nightshade and Fvwm-Crystal.

links/index.md, after:

---
layout : default
title : Links
---

## Other FVWM-related sites

Here are some other sites (besides the
[official]({{ "/" | prepend: site.baseurl }})
one) that have FVWM info:

  + [The FVWM Wiki Pages](http://fvwmforums.org/wiki/):
    A shared collection of FVWM related stuff.
  + [The FVWM Forums](http://fvwmforums.org/phpBB3/):
    A collection of user questions and answers.
  + [FVWM Beginners Gude](http://fvwmforums.org/beginnersguide/):
    A good read when you start with FVWM.

## Prebuilt Configs and Resources

  + [FVWM Nightshade](http://fvwm-nightshade.github.io/Fvwm-Nightshade/):
    This project aims to be a lightweight but feature rich and good
    looking configuration of FVWM. It contains many useful things to
    make work and life easier with a flavour of a modern desktop along
    with good documentation to configure your own desktop.
  + [FVWM Crystal](http://fvwm-crystal.sourceforge.net/)
    FVWM-Crystal aims to create an easy to use, eye-candy but also
    powerful desktop environment for Linux or other Unix-like operating
    systems. FVWM-Crystal is built using FVWM.
  + [Suzanne Skinner's FVWM site](http://ironphoenix.org/tril/fvwm/configs/):
    Stylish screenshots (and config files) from the author of the
    MultiPixmap titlebar feature. Don't miss her thoughtful and
    entertaining essay
    "[My Quest for the Perfect Window Manager](
    http://ironphoenix.org/tril/fvwm/)."
    (*The hobbit in us would like to subtitle it "There and Back Again".*)
  + [FVWM Themes Home Page](http://fvwm-themes.sourceforge.net/):
    FVWM Themes was a gui-driven theme engine for FVWM. FVWM Themes
    is no longer supported, but the site contains examples of different
    themes possible with FVWM.
  + [Dorothy Robinson's FVWM 2.6 Decors](
    http://www.twobarleycorns.net/fvwm-decors.html):
    An impressive collection of window decors showing off FVWM 2.6's
    visual versatility. All the config files are downloadable.
  + [The Window Manger Icons Project](http://wm-icons.sourceforge.net/):
    An older xpm icon distribution to use with FVWM.

## ICCCM

If you want to know why FVWM does some of the things it does (or if you just want
to see if we're really behaving properly!), you can peruse the online version of
the ICCCM:

  + [Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual](http://tronche.com/gui/x/icccm/)
