Wiki/Irc/index.md, before:

---
layout : wiki
title : Irc
type : main
weight : 300
description : |
  #fvwm on irc.freenode.net has been a gathering place for Fvwm users.
  Here is the channel FAQ and a few conversations that occurred on irc.

---

# \#fvwm on irc.freenode.net

A community of Fvwm users and developers can be found on the
`#fvwm` IRC channel on freenode (`irc.freenode.net`). Please
stop by if you have questions about Fvwm or just want to talk
about the fantastic window manager.

If you need help with `#fvwm`, [see this FAQ answer](
HashFvwmFAQ/#who-do-i-ask-for-help-about-fvwm).

## HashFvwmFAQ

[/Irc/HashFvwmFAQ]({{ "/Irc/HashFvwmFAQ" | prepend: site.wikiurl }})
is an FAQ created by users of `#fvwm`.

## Conversations

Here are the list of conversations:

{% assign pages = site.pages | where:"type","irc" | sort:"weight" %}
{% for mypage in pages reversed %}
  <p class="title-indent">
  <a href="{{ mypage.url | prepend: site.baseurl }}">
  {{ mypage.url | remove: "Wiki/Irc" | remove: "/" }}</a><br>
  {{ mypage.description }}
  </p>
{% endfor %}

Commit message:

IRC: move from Freenode to Libera.chat
Due to internal politics at Freenode, it's time to move to libera.chat

Wiki/Irc/index.md, after:

---
layout : wiki
title : Irc
type : main
weight : 300
description : |
  #fvwm on irc.libera.chat has been a gathering place for Fvwm users.
  Here is the channel FAQ and a few conversations that occurred on irc.

---

# \#fvwm on irc.libera.chat

A community of Fvwm users and developers can be found on the
`#fvwm` IRC channel on libera (`irc.libera.chat`). Please
stop by if you have questions about Fvwm or just want to talk
about the fantastic window manager.

If you need help with `#fvwm`, [see this FAQ answer](
HashFvwmFAQ/#who-do-i-ask-for-help-about-fvwm).

## HashFvwmFAQ

[/Irc/HashFvwmFAQ]({{ "/Irc/HashFvwmFAQ" | prepend: site.wikiurl }})
is an FAQ created by users of `#fvwm`.

## Conversations

Here are the list of conversations:

{% assign pages = site.pages | where:"type","irc" | sort:"weight" %}
{% for mypage in pages reversed %}
  <p class="title-indent">
  <a href="{{ mypage.url | prepend: site.baseurl }}">
  {{ mypage.url | remove: "Wiki/Irc" | remove: "/" }}</a><br>
  {{ mypage.description }}
  </p>
{% endfor %}
